The next concern we're going to
focus our attention on is testing.
So, at this point,
we wanna ensure that we've installed
all the things necessary for testing.
You may have already installed jest as I
did earlier, in one of the early steps.
There's some additional stuff that
we need to allow jest to work
nicely with TypeScript, and
we're going to add those right now.
So it's not harmful.
I already have this I know I do, but in
case you don't, this will get it for you.
We're gonna get jest itself.
The type information for jest so at types,
this is stuff coming
from definitely typed.
We'll talk more about that later.
And then some Babel plugins,
Preset ends and preset TypeScript.
So jest is probably the best
test runner to use with TypeScript, as of
the time this course is being recorded.
In that, if you have the right
Babble plugins in your project,
it kinda just works.
So now that we have that installed,
we can check our package JSON,
make sure it happened,
there, I see these here.
It's a good sign.
Time to create our first test file.
We're gonna make a directory tests, and
I'm going to create our first test file
in there, we'll call it index.test.ts.
So I've just grabbed the test
content from the workshop notes.
And I'm going to paste it into this index
test ts folder that I just created.
Now, I'm being yelled at,
about a bunch of things.
It's an unsafe call of an any type value,
right?
We're not quite done yet.
And part of this is saying the use
of jest in terms of this global
described variable being allowed.
It's like you told me that
you can't use any types and
so we're gonna have to get into this and
resolve it.
Like I didn't import described from
anywhere, and it is objecting to that.
So our tests need their own ts config.
And, once again, we're gonna extend.
This is all in the notes by the way,
so you can copy paste.
We're gonna extend from
our base level ts config.
We're going to use something
called references.
So this is what allows us to have
sort of two disconnected sub projects
within this repo, and
it allows us to refer to the already built
source folder in our test folder without
having to compile everything all together.
So we'll say name,it's my lib, and
the path is the home
folder of this project.
Compiler options we're gonna say,
I allow jest, and
my root dir is the home folder.
So your root directory needs to
contain all of the source code needed
to make things work and in this case,
the tests also need source.
And so we have to consider that
to be the root directory here.
There's one two more things we can add.
One is include, and we're gonna include,
we're going to say everything in the test
folder is what this tsconfig pertains to.
And then finally, no omit true.
Jest is not going to require
that we actually build
JavaScript files from our TypeScript.
It just needs this tsconfig to exist.
So no emit true is safe
to do in this case.
TypeScript is helpfully
telling me I forgot something.
So I must turn on composite true,
when I'm using a reference like this.
So if I turn that on,
this should quiet down.
We perturb it and see what happens.
Let me try restarting my language server.
It's giving it a fresh
look at my codebase.
And That's long
enough that I feel like it's type check
this and it's no longer barking at me.
So we have this project reference thing.
We have our dedicated tsconfig,
man we're getting so close.
One last thing and
it has to do with Babel.
So we have to create a dot Babel RC And
this is what just uses,
uses this Babel RC file to understand
how to transform our test code,
and consume it.
So our presets, our Babel preset,
And it's we use this
like nested array syntax.
And we're gonna say targets
Node 10.
And then the second preset we're
using is Babel/preset TypeScript.
There we go.
And, if I've done my job right here,
so these two is a sign that
the compiler is happy.
It found type information.
Yes, lint is saying I am trying to
call an any as if it's a function.
So what this is telling
me is that eslint is not
quite clued in to the TypeScript project.
So I'm just gonna look and
make sure that everything seems right.
Okay, that seems right.
What I want to do is I
want to restart VS code,
because while I did restart
the TypeScript server,
I have not restarted eslint, and
sometimes that's what needs to happen.
So I'm gonna look down here in
the status bar for a little eslint icon.
All right, I see two checks, the servers
running, and no more red squiggles.
So that like, this is a good [LAUGH]
example of something I've learned from
experience and I'm passing to you so
you don't have to learn it the hard way.
Bounce eslint as an early
step of debugging,
because we could have gone down
a whole rabbit hole here, and
tried to figure out what was wrong,
it just needed to stop and restart.
This is often what's gonna have to happen
as you change config files, not something
you do every day, but definitely something
you're doing while you're trying to kick
the tires and make sure that your
project is working as expected.
So let's just double check yarn lint.
Oops, that is not how you spell it.
Zero errors yarn build.
Zero errors yarn test.
I expect some errors here, because my
code being tested is pretty shoddy.
Maybe this isn't the shoddy code.
Nope, this is the good code.
We're gonna be dealing with some
obviously broken things later on.
So we've got our test cases, and
we can see this nice little like.
Output here.
Note that my dist folder still
just contains my library.
I didn't need to explicitly say,
my tests are in TypeScript.
I'm going to compile them into JavaScript
so that Jes can understand them.
Just understands it.
Just because I have this Babel RC.
I have the right plugins there.
So here's what we have.
We didn't have to reach for Webpack,
we're just using TypeScript as not only
the type checker, but the thing that's
emitting the types and the JavaScript.
We can write our tests in TypeScript.
We can write our source
code in TypeScript here.
Let me make sure that this condition
holds true as I hoped it would.
Can I do Right,
I'm not allowed to use
this jest specific thing.
Let me put them side by side so
we can see what I'm talking about here.
Right, so I have this describe I can
only use that in my test folder.
This is great.
It's a dev dependency.
You don't want this in your app code.
You don't [LAUGH] wanna accidentally
bundle jest or your assertion library
in with your app and here, you won't,
you'll be yelled at for doing it.
So we got that nice division of concerns.
Minimal toolchain linting testing,
a pretty simple build,
and what you see is what
you get here folks.